es5/README.md, before:

#ES5 Guidelines

##Table of Contents

  1. [Why follow guidelines?](#why-follow-guidelines?)
  1. [Development Environment](#development-environment)
  1. [Whitespace](#whitespace)
  1. [Create a file](#create-a-file)
  1. [Variables](#variables)
  1. [Control structures](#control-structures)
    - [if-else](#if-else)
    - [for](#for)
    - [while / do-while](#while-/-do-while)
  1. [Objects](#objects)
  1. [Arrays](#arrays)
  1. [Strings](#strings)
  1. [Functions](#functions)
  1. [Comments](#comments)
  1. [Type casting and coercion](#type-casting-and-coercion)

## Why follow guidelines?

  - Readability

  - Maintenance

  - Team working

## Development Environment

  - We recommend using [Sublime Text 3][Sublime-Text-3].

  - We highly recommend using the linter [eslint][eslint]. Download the .eslintrc we use [here]().

## Whitespace

  - Use soft tabs set to 2 spaces.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function () {
    ∙∙∙∙var name;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function () {
    ∙var name;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function () {
    ∙∙var name;
    }
    ```

  - Place 1 space before the leading brace.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function test(){
      console.log('test');
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function test() {
      console.log('test');
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    dog.set('attr',{
      age  : '1 year',
      breed: 'Bernese Mountain Dog'
    });
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    dog.set('attr', {
      age  : '1 year',
      breed: 'Bernese Mountain Dog'
    });
    ```

  - Set off operators with spaces.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var x=y+5;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var x = y + 5;
    ```

  - End file with a single newline.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    1.  (function(env) {
    2.    ...
    3.  })(this);
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    1.  (function(env) {
    2.    ...
    3.  })(this);
    4.
    5.
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    1.  (function(env) {
    2.    ...
    3.  })(this);
    4.
    ```

  - Use indentation when making long method chains. Use a leading dot, which emphasizes that the line is a method call, not a new statement.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User.findOne().tap().then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User.
      findOne().
      tap().
      then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne()
        .tap()
          .then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne()
        .tap()
      .then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne().tap()
      .then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne().tap()
        .then();
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne()
      .tap()
      .then();
    ```

## Create a file

  - Embed every files with this [IIFE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immediately-invoked_function_expression) UMD (Universal module definition) notation.

    ```javascript
    ;(function(env, name, dependencies, factory) {

      if (typeof env.define === 'function' && env.define.amd)
        env.define(name, dependencies, factory.bind(env));
      else if (typeof env.module === 'object' && env.module.exports) {
        module.exports = factory.apply(env, dependencies.map(function(item) {
          return require(item);
        }));
      } else {
        env[name] = factory.apply(env, dependencies.map(function(item) {
          var splitted = item.split('/');
          // return env[item.replace(/(?:(?:(?:[^\/]+)(?:\/))+)(.+)/, '$1.js')];
          return env[splitted[splitted.length - 1]];
        }));
      }

    })(this, 'filename', [
      'path/to/dependency'
    ], function(dependency) {
      'use strict';

      // Code here
      // env is available in this

    });
    ```

## Variables

  - Always use `var` to declare variables.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    truth = 42;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var truth = 42;
    ```

  - Use one `var` per variable.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var x = 12,
        y = 24,
        z = 42;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var x = 12;
    var y = 24;
    var z = 42;
    ```

  - Declare unassigned variables last.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var vector;
    var x = 12;
    var y = 24;
    var z = 42;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var x = 12;
    var y = 24;
    var z = 42;
    var vector;
    ```

  - Declare variables at the top of their scope.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function joinDarkSide(character) {
      kneelBeforeEmperor(character);

      var name = character.firstname();

      if (name == 'Yoda')
        return false;

      return true;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function joinDarkSide(character) {
      var name = character.firstname();

      kneelBeforeEmperor(character);

      if (name == 'Yoda')
        return false;

      return true;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_ - _unnecessary function call_
    ```javascript
    function joinDarkSide(character) {
      var name = character.firstname();

      if (character.isSith())
        return true;

      kneelBeforeEmperor(character);

      if (name == 'Yoda')
        return false;

      return true;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function joinDarkSide(character) {
      var name;

      if (character.isSith())
        return true;

      kneelBeforeEmperor(character);

      name = character.firstname();

      if (name == 'Yoda')
        return false;

      return true;
    }
    ```

## Control structures

### if-else

  - Don't use braces or inline code for one-line action.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var test = 42;

    if (test > 0) {
      test++;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (test > 0) test++;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    if (test > 0)
      test++;
    ```

  - Use braces for multi-lines action.

    ```javascript
    var array = [10, 42];
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (array[1] > 0)
      array = array.map(function(item) {
        return item++;
      });
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    if (array[1] > 0) {
      array = array.map(function(item) {
        return item++;
      });
    }
    ```

### for

  - Cache variables used for condition.

    ```javascript
    var array = [10, 42];
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    for (var i = 0; i < array.length; i++)
      array[i] += 2;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    for (var i = 0, len = array.length; i < len; i++)
      array[i] += 2;
    ```

  - When loop direction doesn't matter, use improved form.

    ```javascript
    var array = [10, 42];
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    for (var i = 0, len = array.length; i < len; i++)
      array[i] += 2;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    for (var i = array.length - 1; i >= 0; i--)
      array[i] += 2;
    ```

### while / do-while

  - Cache variables used for condition.

    ```javascript
    var array = [10, 42];
    var i = 0;
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    while (i < array.length) {
      array[i] += 2;
      i++;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var len = array.length;

    while (i < len) {
      array[i] += 2;
      i++;
    }
    ```

## Objects

  - Use the literal syntax for object creation.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = new Object();
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {};
    ```

  - Place 1 whitespace after the colons.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster:true
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true
    };
    ```

  - Align colons on the most distant colon. Don't place whitespace before the most distant colon.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true,
      age: 28
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true,
      age       : 28
    };
    ```

  - Don't use reserved words as keys.
    - It won't work in IE8.
    - It can lead to readability issues.
    - Most of editor / IDE syntactically color them.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      class  : 'name',
      private: true
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      type  : 'name',
      hidden: true
    };
    ```

  - When possible, use valid identifier for your properties names.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      'class-name': 'name';
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      type: 'name'
    };
    ```

  - Use readable synonyms in camelCase in place of reserved words.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      class       : 'name',
      'is-private': true
    };
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      klass       : 'name',
      'is-private': true
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      type     : 'name',
      isPrivate: true
    };
    ```

  - When possible, use dot notation when accessing properties.

    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true,
      age       : 28
    };
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var isJedi = luke['jediMaster'];
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var isJedi = luke.jediMaster;
    ```

  - Use subscript notation [] when accessing properties with a variable.

    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true,
      age       : 28
    };

    function getProp(name) {
      return luke[name];
    }
    ```

## Arrays

  - Use the literal syntax for object creation.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var items = new Array();
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var items = [];
    ```

  - To add items to an array, use `Array#push`.

    ```javascript
    var items = [];
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    items[items.length] = 'item';
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    items.push('item');
    ```

## Strings

  - Use simple quote instead of double.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var authors = "Nicolas Prigent and Joachim Westphal";
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var authors = 'Nicolas Prigent and Joachim Westphal';
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var principle = "It'll spread in the entire world";
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var principle = 'It\'ll spread in the entire world';
    ```

## Functions

  - Place 1 space after `function`.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    (function() {
      ...
    })();
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    (function () {
      ...
    })();

    ```

  - Always name your functions, it makes stack traces more reliables.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var foo = function () {
      ...
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var foo = function foo() {
      ...
    };
    ```

  - Never declare a function in a non-function block (if, while, etc). Assign the function to a variable instead.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (...) {
      function toto() {
        ...
      }
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var toto;

    if (...) {
      toto = function toto() {
        ...
      };
    }
    ```

  - Never name a parameter arguments. This will take precedence over the arguments object that is given to every function scope.

    <!-- FIXME: Need better naming -->

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function toto(yolo, arguments) {
      ...
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function toto(yolo, args) {
      ...
    }
    ```

  - `var` declarations should be followed by a blank line.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function sayHello() {
      var hello = 'Hello world!';
      console.log(hello);
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function sayHello() {
      var hello = 'Hello world!';

      console.log(hello);
    }
    ```

  - Returns should be preceded by a blank line, except for unique `return` in a statement block.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function sayHello() {
      var hello = 'Hello world!';

      console.log(hello);
      return hello;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function sayHello() {
      var hello = 'Hello world!';

      console.log(hello);

      return hello;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {
      if (character.force > 50) {

        return true;
      }
      return false;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {
      if (character.force > 50)
        return true;
      return false;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {
      if (character.force > 50)
        return true;

      return false;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {

      return character.force > 50;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {
      return character.force > 50;
    }
    ```

## Comments

  - Use `//` for single line comments.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    /* This is a comment */
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    // This is a comment
    ```

  - Place a whitespace after `//`.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    //This is a comment
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    // This is a comment
    ```

  - Place single line comments on a newline above the subject of the comment.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var active = true; // is current tab
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    // is current tab
    var active = true;
    ```

  - Place an empty line before the comments.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var active = getActiveTab();
    // verify there is a active tab
    if (active)
      ...
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var active = getActiveTab();

    // verify there is a active tab
    if (active)
      ...
    ```

## Type casting and coercion

  - Use shortcuts.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (name !== '') {
      ...
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    if (name) {
      ...
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (collection.length > 0) {
      ...
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    if (collection.length) {
      ...
    }
    ```


## Todo
  1. Constant
  1. Semi colons
  1. Custom exceptions
  1. Constructor, inheritance and prototype
  1. Enhance braces and inline
  1. JsDoc
  1. Inline comments in object declaration
  1. TODO & FIWME

## Idea
  1. multi-level prototype hierarchies


[img_bad]:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Cornelin/Guidelines/master/img/bad.png
[img_ok]:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Cornelin/Guidelines/master/img/ok.png

[Sublime-Text-3]:http://www.sublimetext.com/3
[eslint]:http://eslint.org

Commit message:

add section Why follow guidelines

es5/README.md, after:

#ES5 Guidelines

##Table of Contents

  1. [Why follow guidelines?](#why-follow-guidelines?)
  1. [Development Environment](#development-environment)
  1. [Whitespace](#whitespace)
  1. [Create a file](#create-a-file)
  1. [Variables](#variables)
  1. [Control structures](#control-structures)
    - [if-else](#if-else)
    - [for](#for)
    - [while / do-while](#while-/-do-while)
  1. [Objects](#objects)
  1. [Arrays](#arrays)
  1. [Strings](#strings)
  1. [Functions](#functions)
  1. [Promises](#Promises)
  1. [Comments](#comments)
  1. [Type casting and coercion](#type-casting-and-coercion)
  1. [Constructors, inheritance and prototype](#constructors-inheritance-and-prototype)

## Why follow guidelines?

### Readability

  Most of the following advices are about readability. They are designed to improve understanding of your code, allowing you to identify clearly and quickly the sense of your logic.

### Maintainability

  Following guidelines will improve the consistency of your code. Thus, you'll not be lost by taking a piece of code written 6 months ago.

### Team working

  Within a team, it is important to have a common language to communicate effectively. The guidelines are this common language.

### Best practices

  These guidelines will show you some best practices we highly recommend you to use and abuse. Once your fingers have memorized them, you will no longer need to think about it.

### Just for fun!



## Development Environment

  - We recommend using [Sublime Text 3][Sublime-Text-3].

  - We highly recommend using the linter [eslint][eslint]. Download the .eslintrc we use [here]().

## Whitespace

  - Use soft tabs set to 2 spaces.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function () {
    ∙∙∙∙var name;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function () {
    ∙var name;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function () {
    ∙∙var name;
    }
    ```

  - Place 1 space before the leading brace.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function test(){
      console.log('test');
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function test() {
      console.log('test');
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    dog.set('attr',{
      age  : '1 year',
      breed: 'Bernese Mountain Dog'
    });
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    dog.set('attr', {
      age  : '1 year',
      breed: 'Bernese Mountain Dog'
    });
    ```

  - Set off operators with spaces.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var x=y+5;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var x = y + 5;
    ```

  - End file with a single newline.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    1.  (function(env) {
    2.    ...
    3.  })(this);
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    1.  (function(env) {
    2.    ...
    3.  })(this);
    4.
    5.
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    1.  (function(env) {
    2.    ...
    3.  })(this);
    4.
    ```

  - Use indentation when making long method chains. Use a leading dot, which emphasizes that the line is a method call, not a new statement.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User.findOne().tap().then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User.
      findOne().
      tap().
      then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne()
        .tap()
          .then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne()
        .tap()
      .then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne().tap()
      .then();
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne().tap()
        .then();
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    User
      .findOne()
      .tap()
      .then();
    ```

## Create a file

  - Embed every files with this [IIFE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immediately-invoked_function_expression) UMD (Universal module definition) notation.

    ```javascript
    ;(function(env, name, dependencies, factory) {

      if (typeof env.define === 'function' && env.define.amd)
        env.define(name, dependencies, factory.bind(env));
      else if (typeof env.module === 'object' && env.module.exports) {
        module.exports = factory.apply(env, dependencies.map(function(item) {
          return require(item);
        }));
      } else {
        env[name] = factory.apply(env, dependencies.map(function(item) {
          var splitted = item.split('/');
          // return env[item.replace(/(?:(?:(?:[^\/]+)(?:\/))+)(.+)/, '$1.js')];
          return env[splitted[splitted.length - 1]];
        }));
      }

    })(this, 'filename', [
      'path/to/dependency'
    ], function(dependency) {
      'use strict';

      // Code here
      // env is available in this

    });
    ```

## Variables

  - Always use `var` to declare variables.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    truth = 42;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var truth = 42;
    ```

  - Use one `var` per variable.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var x = 12,
        y = 24,
        z = 42;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var x = 12;
    var y = 24;
    var z = 42;
    ```

  - Declare unassigned variables last.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var vector;
    var x = 12;
    var y = 24;
    var z = 42;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var x = 12;
    var y = 24;
    var z = 42;
    var vector;
    ```

  - Declare variables at the top of their scope.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function joinDarkSide(character) {
      kneelBeforeEmperor(character);

      var name = character.firstname();

      if (name == 'Yoda')
        return false;

      return true;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function joinDarkSide(character) {
      var name = character.firstname();

      kneelBeforeEmperor(character);

      if (name == 'Yoda')
        return false;

      return true;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_ - _unnecessary function call_
    ```javascript
    function joinDarkSide(character) {
      var name = character.firstname();

      if (character.isSith())
        return true;

      kneelBeforeEmperor(character);

      if (name == 'Yoda')
        return false;

      return true;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function joinDarkSide(character) {
      var name;

      if (character.isSith())
        return true;

      kneelBeforeEmperor(character);

      name = character.firstname();

      if (name == 'Yoda')
        return false;

      return true;
    }
    ```

## Control structures

### if-else

  - Don't use braces or inline code for one-line action.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var test = 42;

    if (test > 0) {
      test++;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (test > 0) test++;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    if (test > 0)
      test++;
    ```

  - Use braces for multi-lines action.

    ```javascript
    var array = [10, 42];
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (array[1] > 0)
      array = array.map(function(item) {
        return item++;
      });
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    if (array[1] > 0) {
      array = array.map(function(item) {
        return item++;
      });
    }
    ```

### for

  - Cache variables used for condition.

    ```javascript
    var array = [10, 42];
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    for (var i = 0; i < array.length; i++)
      array[i] += 2;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    for (var i = 0, len = array.length; i < len; i++)
      array[i] += 2;
    ```

  - When loop direction doesn't matter, use improved form.

    ```javascript
    var array = [10, 42];
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    for (var i = 0, len = array.length; i < len; i++)
      array[i] += 2;
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    for (var i = array.length - 1; i >= 0; i--)
      array[i] += 2;
    ```

### while / do-while

  - Cache variables used for condition.

    ```javascript
    var array = [10, 42];
    var i = 0;
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    while (i < array.length) {
      array[i] += 2;
      i++;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var len = array.length;

    while (i < len) {
      array[i] += 2;
      i++;
    }
    ```

## Objects

  - Use the literal syntax for object creation.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = new Object();
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {};
    ```

  - Place 1 whitespace after the colons.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster:true
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true
    };
    ```

  - Align colons on the most distant colon. Don't place whitespace before the most distant colon.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true,
      age: 28
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true,
      age       : 28
    };
    ```

  - Don't use reserved words as keys.
    - It won't work in IE8.
    - It can lead to readability issues.
    - Most of editor / IDE syntactically color them.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      class  : 'name',
      private: true
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      type  : 'name',
      hidden: true
    };
    ```

  - When possible, use valid identifier for your properties names.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      'class-name': 'name';
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      type: 'name'
    };
    ```

  - Use readable synonyms in camelCase in place of reserved words.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      class       : 'name',
      'is-private': true
    };
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      klass       : 'name',
      'is-private': true
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var item = {
      type     : 'name',
      isPrivate: true
    };
    ```

  - When possible, use dot notation when accessing properties.

    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true,
      age       : 28
    };
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var isJedi = luke['jediMaster'];
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var isJedi = luke.jediMaster;
    ```

  - Use subscript notation [] when accessing properties with a variable.

    ```javascript
    var luke = {
      jediMaster: true,
      age       : 28
    };

    function getProp(name) {
      return luke[name];
    }
    ```

## Arrays

  - Use the literal syntax for object creation.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var items = new Array();
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var items = [];
    ```

  - To add items to an array, use `Array#push`.

    ```javascript
    var items = [];
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    items[items.length] = 'item';
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    items.push('item');
    ```

## Strings

  - Use simple quote instead of double.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var authors = "Nicolas Prigent and Joachim Westphal";
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var authors = 'Nicolas Prigent and Joachim Westphal';
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var principle = "It'll spread in the entire world";
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var principle = 'It\'ll spread in the entire world';
    ```

## Functions

  - Place 1 space after `function`.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    (function() {
      ...
    })();
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    (function () {
      ...
    })();

    ```

  - Always name your functions, it makes stack traces more reliables.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var foo = function () {
      ...
    };
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var foo = function foo() {
      ...
    };
    ```

  - Never declare a function in a non-function block (if, while, etc). Assign the function to a variable instead.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (...) {
      function toto() {
        ...
      }
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var toto;

    if (...) {
      toto = function toto() {
        ...
      };
    }
    ```

  - Never name a parameter arguments. This will take precedence over the arguments object that is given to every function scope.

    <!-- FIXME: Need better naming -->

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function toto(yolo, arguments) {
      ...
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function toto(yolo, args) {
      ...
    }
    ```

  - `var` declarations should be followed by a blank line.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function sayHello() {
      var hello = 'Hello world!';
      console.log(hello);
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function sayHello() {
      var hello = 'Hello world!';

      console.log(hello);
    }
    ```

  - Returns should be preceded by a blank line, except for unique `return` in a statement block.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function sayHello() {
      var hello = 'Hello world!';

      console.log(hello);
      return hello;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function sayHello() {
      var hello = 'Hello world!';

      console.log(hello);

      return hello;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {
      if (character.force > 50) {

        return true;
      }
      return false;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {
      if (character.force > 50)
        return true;
      return false;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {
      if (character.force > 50)
        return true;

      return false;
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {

      return character.force > 50;
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    function isJediMaster(character) {
      return character.force > 50;
    }
    ```

## Comments

  - Use `//` for single line comments.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    /* This is a comment */
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    // This is a comment
    ```

  - Place a whitespace after `//`.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    //This is a comment
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    // This is a comment
    ```

  - Place single line comments on a newline above the subject of the comment.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var active = true; // is current tab
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    // is current tab
    var active = true;
    ```

  - Place an empty line before the comments.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    var active = getActiveTab();
    // verify there is a active tab
    if (active)
      ...
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    var active = getActiveTab();

    // verify there is a active tab
    if (active)
      ...
    ```

## Promises

## Type casting and coercion

  - Use shortcuts.

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (name !== '') {
      ...
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    if (name) {
      ...
    }
    ```

    ![img_bad] _**bad**_
    ```javascript
    if (collection.length > 0) {
      ...
    }
    ```

    ![img_ok] _**ok**_
    ```javascript
    if (collection.length) {
      ...
    }
    ```


## Todo
  1. Constant
  1. Semi colons
  1. Custom exceptions
  1. Constructor, inheritance and prototype
  1. Enhance braces and inline
  1. JsDoc
  1. Inline comments in object declaration
  1. TODO & FIWME

## Idea
  1. multi-level prototype hierarchies


[img_bad]:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Cornelin/Guidelines/master/img/bad.png
[img_ok]:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Cornelin/Guidelines/master/img/ok.png

[Sublime-Text-3]:http://www.sublimetext.com/3
[eslint]:http://eslint.org
